README.md, before:

# Spot Micro
![Spot Micro](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OttPeterR/SpotMicro/master/readme_assets/spot_micro_complete.png)

My own personal build and implementation of the Spot Micro quadruped \
More info about the open source version can be found at their [website](https://gitlab.com/custom_robots/spotmicroai).

This is a Work In Progress\
I'm updating things as I go, then I'll turn it all into a nice blog post or something.

### Table of Contents
1. [Parts](#parts)
1. [Assembly](#assembly)
1. [Electronics](#electronics)
1. [Software](#software)
1. [Simulation](#simulation)

## Parts

#### 3D Printed Parts
I'm using the parts from [v1.02](https://gitlab.com/custom_robots/spotmicroai/3dprinting/-/tree/master/Basic%203d%20parts%20by%20Brad%20Prince/v1.02), but there is also the [Thingiverse original](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:3445283) by KDY

Parts List: 
- 4x(foot, wrist, mid limb, mid limb cover, hind limb)
- Chassis, Chassis L, Chassis R
- Front Shoulder Inner, Outer
- Rear Shoulder Inner, Outer
- Cover Top, Bottom, Nose, Rear

In total there are 31 pieces. The "cover" pieces are typically printed in an accent color, like yellow.

Currently I'm about 20% done printing it all, and I'd estimate it'll take about a week of straight printing if nothing goes wrong.

#### Circuits
- Any Raspberry Pi - I'm using a Pi Zero W (15$)
    - Make sure your Pi has the header pins for wiring
    - Any model RPi will do though (15-60$)
    - Also Nvidia Jetson if you're a baller (100$)
- 16GB or 32GB SD Card (Samsung and SanDisk are quality) (10$)
- (Changed) Servo Controller with i2c - PCA 9685 (< 10$)
    - custom made servo controller (15$)
    - Teensy 4.1 (30$)
- 3 Axis Gyro Accelerometer - MPU 6050 (10$)
- LCD Display 16x2 with i2c (15$)
- Breadboards (?)
- Wires (?)
- Soldering Iron + Solder (15$)

#### Motors and Power
- 12x Servo Motors - MG996R High Torque (60$ total)
    - Also servo horns (these can be 3D printed if really needed)
- 2x 4,000 mAh 7.4V LiPo Batteries - S2 or S3 connector, 50C or higher rating (25$ each)
- LiPo Charger - Match S2 or S3 connector, 1.5A minimum (20$)
- UBEC with 3A 5V output

#### Other Hardware
- Rocker switch
- Bunch of M3, M4, M5 screws and nuts
    - Will update with actual numbers later
- 8x Ball Bearing - F625zz


## Assembly
All 3D Printed parts:

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OttPeterR/SpotMicro/master/readme_assets/spot_micro_complete.png" width="450">

This is where your build may differ, Fran Ferri made a [3D model](https://gitlab.com/custom_robots/spotmicroai/3dprinting/-/tree/master/User%20Fran%20Ferri%20models) that has the rear shoulders flipped for easier servo access.\
What's important here is that you know which direction the shoulders fit.\
The order of the pieces goes: Shoulder on the bottom, then Nose/Rear Cover, then Body Cover on the top. Refer to the completed picture above.\
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OttPeterR/SpotMicro/master/readme_assets/spot_micro_chassis.png" width="300"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OttPeterR/SpotMicro/master/readme_assets/spot_micro_chassis_front.png" width="250"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OttPeterR/SpotMicro/master/readme_assets/spot_micro_chassis_back.png" width="250">


See how the shoulder servo mounts are oriented, with the peg facing toward the rear so then the servo is pointed forward.\
It should also be clear enough from the images how to assemble the upper part of the leg. (Wires route through it, so don't put it together just yet)\
Also the end parts of the legs should be oriented like so.\
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OttPeterR/SpotMicro/master/readme_assets/spot_micro_legs.png" width="350"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OttPeterR/SpotMicro/master/readme_assets/spot_micro_leg.png" height="250">





WIP


## Electronics
Wiring the breadboards and getting the batteries to all work.

The community has generally found the PCA 9685 servo controller to be a little too jittery. So to fix this, the awesome dudes who put their freetime into this hobby project made a custom board that houses a Teensy 4.1. Super awesome work!

WIP

## Software
#### Have some operating system already installed
Some kinda linux should be fine. For my RPi Zero W I'm using Raspbian Buster. If you pick something different: YMMV. This is well documented enough many other places. If you're new to this, go look up the NOOBS installer, it's fantastically easy to use.


#### Upgrade your swap space
The RPi Zero has only 512 MB of ram, that kinda sucks, so we'll bump up the swap to 2 GB

First disable swap:\
`sudo dphys-swapfile swapoff`

Then increase the amount of swap to be used by editing (with sudo) the file at `/etc/dphys-swapfile` to include `CONF_SWAPSIZE=2048`

Initialize the newly increased swap file:\
`sudo dphys-swapfile setup`

Start swap back up again:\
`sudo dphys-swapfile swapon`

### Install ROS Kinetic

ROS is Robot Operating System. There are a lot of steps to this and it took my slow little Pi Zero about 6 hours to run all of the compilation. Follow [their instructions](http://wiki.ros.org/ROSberryPi/Installing%20ROS%20Kinetic%20on%20the%20Raspberry%20Pi) and come back here or follow mine below (they're the same). They warned about a few issues that could arrise, but I was lucky and did not encounter any of them. This is likely due to their patching and me using a clean install or Raspbian without putting anything else on it. YMMV.

##### Setup Repositories
`sudo sh -c 'echo "deb http://packages.ros.org/ros/ubuntu $(lsb_release -sc) main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ros-latest.list'`\
`sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://ha.pool.sks-keyservers.net:80 --recv-key C1CF6E31E6BADE8868B172B4F42ED6FBAB17C654`

apt-get update/upgrade\
`sudo apt-get update`\
`sudo apt-get upgrade`

Install Bootstrap Deps\
`sudo apt-get install -y python-rosdep python-rosinstall-generator python-wstool python-rosinstall build-essential cmake`

Install rosdep\
`sudo rosdep init`\
`rosdep update`


##### Installation
Make workspace for catkin\
`mkdir -p ~/ros_catkin_ws`\
`cd ~/ros_catkin_ws`

Build command line tools\
`rosinstall_generator ros_comm --rosdistro kinetic --deps --wet-only --tar > kinetic-ros_comm-wet.rosinstall`\
`wstool init src kinetic-ros_comm-wet.rosinstall`


##### Dependencies

Open Asset Import Library\
This one takes a while...\
`mkdir -p ~/ros_catkin_ws/external_src`\
`cd ~/ros_catkin_ws/external_src`\
`wget http://sourceforge.net/projects/assimp/files/assimp-3.1/assimp-3.1.1_no_test_models.zip/download -O assimp-3.1.1_no_test_models.zip`\
`unzip assimp-3.1.1_no_test_models.zip`\
`cd assimp-3.1.1`\
`cmake .`\
`make`\
`sudo make install`

rosdep dependencies\
`cd ~/ros_catkin_ws`\
`rosdep install -y --from-paths src --ignore-src --rosdistro kinetic -r --os=debian:buster`\
in the command above, replace `buster` with `jessie` or `stretch` if you're on one of those versions


##### Build Catkin Workspace
`sudo apt remove libboost1.67-dev`\
`sudo apt autoremove`\
`sudo apt install -y libboost1.58-dev libboost1.58-all-dev`\
`sudo apt install -y g++-5 gcc-5`\
`sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-5 10`\
`sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-5 20`\
`sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/g++ g++ /usr/bin/g++-5 10`\
`sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/g++ g++ /usr/bin/g++-5 20`\
`sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/cc cc /usr/bin/gcc 30`\
`sudo update-alternatives --set cc /usr/bin/gcc`\
`sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/c++ c++ /usr/bin/g++ 30`\
`sudo update-alternatives --set c++ /usr/bin/g++`\
`sudo apt install -y python-rosdep python-rosinstall-generator python-wstool python-rosinstall build-essential cmake`

`sudo ./src/catkin/bin/catkin_make_isolated --install -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release --install-space /opt/ros/kinetic`

##### Activate and add to bash config
`source /opt/ros/kinetic/setup.bash`\
`echo "source /opt/ros/kinetic/setup.bash" >> ~/.bashrc`


### Install on MacOS
follow [this](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Installation/Foxy/macOS-Install-Binary/)

## Simulation
Virtual simulation of the Spot Micro, no physical robot necessary.

WIP

Commit message:

adding not about possibly weak servos

README.md, after:

# Spot Micro
![Spot Micro](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OttPeterR/SpotMicro/master/readme_assets/spot_micro_complete.png)

My own personal build and implementation of the Spot Micro quadruped \
More info about the open source version can be found at their [website](https://gitlab.com/custom_robots/spotmicroai).

This is a Work In Progress\
I'm updating things as I go, then I'll turn it all into a nice blog post or something.

### Table of Contents
1. [Parts](#parts)
1. [Assembly](#assembly)
1. [Electronics](#electronics)
1. [Software](#software)
1. [Simulation](#simulation)

## Parts

#### 3D Printed Parts
I'm using the parts from [v1.02](https://gitlab.com/custom_robots/spotmicroai/3dprinting/-/tree/master/Basic%203d%20parts%20by%20Brad%20Prince/v1.02), but there is also the [Thingiverse original](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:3445283) by KDY

Parts List: 
- 4x(foot, wrist, mid limb, mid limb cover, hind limb)
- Chassis, Chassis L, Chassis R
- Front Shoulder Inner, Outer
- Rear Shoulder Inner, Outer
- Cover Top, Bottom, Nose, Rear

In total there are 31 pieces. The "cover" pieces are typically printed in an accent color, like yellow.

Currently I'm about 20% done printing it all, and I'd estimate it'll take about a week of straight printing if nothing goes wrong.

#### Circuits
- Any Raspberry Pi - I'm using a Pi Zero W (15$)
    - Make sure your Pi has the header pins for wiring
    - Any model RPi will do though (15-60$)
    - Also Nvidia Jetson if you're a baller (100$)
- 16GB or 32GB SD Card (Samsung and SanDisk are quality) (10$)
- (Changed) Servo Controller with i2c - PCA 9685 (< 10$)
    - custom made servo controller (15$)
    - Teensy 4.1 (30$)
- 3 Axis Gyro Accelerometer - MPU 6050 (10$)
- LCD Display 16x2 with i2c (15$)
- Breadboards (?)
- Wires (?)
- Soldering Iron + Solder (15$)

#### Motors and Power
- (Could change) 12x Servo Motors - MG996R High Torque (60$ total)
    - These might be too weak, will have to see when they get here, might need to upgrade to more torque
    - Also servo horns (these can be 3D printed if really needed)
- 2x 4,000 mAh 7.4V LiPo Batteries - S2 or S3 connector, 50C or higher rating (25$ each)
- LiPo Charger - Match S2 or S3 connector, 1.5A minimum (20$)
- UBEC with 3A 5V output

#### Other Hardware
- Rocker switch
- Bunch of M3, M4, M5 screws and nuts
    - Will update with actual numbers later
- 8x Ball Bearing - F625zz


## Assembly
All 3D Printed parts:

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OttPeterR/SpotMicro/master/readme_assets/spot_micro_complete.png" width="450">

This is where your build may differ, Fran Ferri made a [3D model](https://gitlab.com/custom_robots/spotmicroai/3dprinting/-/tree/master/User%20Fran%20Ferri%20models) that has the rear shoulders flipped for easier servo access.\
What's important here is that you know which direction the shoulders fit.\
The order of the pieces goes: Shoulder on the bottom, then Nose/Rear Cover, then Body Cover on the top. Refer to the completed picture above.\
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OttPeterR/SpotMicro/master/readme_assets/spot_micro_chassis.png" width="300"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OttPeterR/SpotMicro/master/readme_assets/spot_micro_chassis_front.png" width="250"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OttPeterR/SpotMicro/master/readme_assets/spot_micro_chassis_back.png" width="250">


See how the shoulder servo mounts are oriented, with the peg facing toward the rear so then the servo is pointed forward.\
It should also be clear enough from the images how to assemble the upper part of the leg. (Wires route through it, so don't put it together just yet)\
Also the end parts of the legs should be oriented like so.\
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OttPeterR/SpotMicro/master/readme_assets/spot_micro_legs.png" width="350"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OttPeterR/SpotMicro/master/readme_assets/spot_micro_leg.png" height="250">





WIP


## Electronics
Wiring the breadboards and getting the batteries to all work.

The community has generally found the PCA 9685 servo controller to be a little too jittery. So to fix this, the awesome dudes who put their freetime into this hobby project made a custom board that houses a Teensy 4.1. Super awesome work!

WIP

## Software
#### Have some operating system already installed
Some kinda linux should be fine. For my RPi Zero W I'm using Raspbian Buster. If you pick something different: YMMV. This is well documented enough many other places. If you're new to this, go look up the NOOBS installer, it's fantastically easy to use.


#### Upgrade your swap space
The RPi Zero has only 512 MB of ram, that kinda sucks, so we'll bump up the swap to 2 GB

First disable swap:\
`sudo dphys-swapfile swapoff`

Then increase the amount of swap to be used by editing (with sudo) the file at `/etc/dphys-swapfile` to include `CONF_SWAPSIZE=2048`

Initialize the newly increased swap file:\
`sudo dphys-swapfile setup`

Start swap back up again:\
`sudo dphys-swapfile swapon`

### Install ROS Kinetic

ROS is Robot Operating System. There are a lot of steps to this and it took my slow little Pi Zero about 6 hours to run all of the compilation. Follow [their instructions](http://wiki.ros.org/ROSberryPi/Installing%20ROS%20Kinetic%20on%20the%20Raspberry%20Pi) and come back here or follow mine below (they're the same). They warned about a few issues that could arrise, but I was lucky and did not encounter any of them. This is likely due to their patching and me using a clean install or Raspbian without putting anything else on it. YMMV.

##### Setup Repositories
`sudo sh -c 'echo "deb http://packages.ros.org/ros/ubuntu $(lsb_release -sc) main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ros-latest.list'`\
`sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://ha.pool.sks-keyservers.net:80 --recv-key C1CF6E31E6BADE8868B172B4F42ED6FBAB17C654`

apt-get update/upgrade\
`sudo apt-get update`\
`sudo apt-get upgrade`

Install Bootstrap Deps\
`sudo apt-get install -y python-rosdep python-rosinstall-generator python-wstool python-rosinstall build-essential cmake`

Install rosdep\
`sudo rosdep init`\
`rosdep update`


##### Installation
Make workspace for catkin\
`mkdir -p ~/ros_catkin_ws`\
`cd ~/ros_catkin_ws`

Build command line tools\
`rosinstall_generator ros_comm --rosdistro kinetic --deps --wet-only --tar > kinetic-ros_comm-wet.rosinstall`\
`wstool init src kinetic-ros_comm-wet.rosinstall`


##### Dependencies

Open Asset Import Library\
This one takes a while...\
`mkdir -p ~/ros_catkin_ws/external_src`\
`cd ~/ros_catkin_ws/external_src`\
`wget http://sourceforge.net/projects/assimp/files/assimp-3.1/assimp-3.1.1_no_test_models.zip/download -O assimp-3.1.1_no_test_models.zip`\
`unzip assimp-3.1.1_no_test_models.zip`\
`cd assimp-3.1.1`\
`cmake .`\
`make`\
`sudo make install`

rosdep dependencies\
`cd ~/ros_catkin_ws`\
`rosdep install -y --from-paths src --ignore-src --rosdistro kinetic -r --os=debian:buster`\
in the command above, replace `buster` with `jessie` or `stretch` if you're on one of those versions


##### Build Catkin Workspace
`sudo apt remove libboost1.67-dev`\
`sudo apt autoremove`\
`sudo apt install -y libboost1.58-dev libboost1.58-all-dev`\
`sudo apt install -y g++-5 gcc-5`\
`sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-5 10`\
`sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-5 20`\
`sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/g++ g++ /usr/bin/g++-5 10`\
`sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/g++ g++ /usr/bin/g++-5 20`\
`sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/cc cc /usr/bin/gcc 30`\
`sudo update-alternatives --set cc /usr/bin/gcc`\
`sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/c++ c++ /usr/bin/g++ 30`\
`sudo update-alternatives --set c++ /usr/bin/g++`\
`sudo apt install -y python-rosdep python-rosinstall-generator python-wstool python-rosinstall build-essential cmake`

`sudo ./src/catkin/bin/catkin_make_isolated --install -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release --install-space /opt/ros/kinetic`

##### Activate and add to bash config
`source /opt/ros/kinetic/setup.bash`\
`echo "source /opt/ros/kinetic/setup.bash" >> ~/.bashrc`


### Install on MacOS
follow [this](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Installation/Foxy/macOS-Install-Binary/)

## Simulation
Virtual simulation of the Spot Micro, no physical robot necessary.

WIP
